Suggested Rules Changes

These are suggested changes to the CNA Rules. These changes have not been vetted, and they may not have been fully developed or discussed. As suggestions are developed and discussed by the Board and the CNA community, this list will be updated to indicate if each suggestion will be incorporated or declined.

Comments can be added to each item or included in the Git comment system.

______

20 March 2017
- Dan Adinolfi

GOAL:
CHANGE: Fix typo at end of 2.2.9 
OUTCOME: 

GOAL: Clarify the difference between "when a vulnerability is made public" versus "when a vulnerability is added to the CVE list" and how they affect each other.
CHANGE: Define these differences, and their relation to one another, (including why both are necessary).
OUTCOME: Reduce the frequency of this line of questioning by providing a concrete source on the matter

GOAL: Better define "hardware" with regard to CVE.
CHANGE: Define "hardware" with regard to CVE.
OUTCOME: Give more clarity to ensure that covered products fall within CVE's scope.

GOAL: Better describe the nested Root CNA structure (with a new diagram?).
CHANGE: Describe the nested Root CNA structure. Provide diagrams to give a visual representation of the structure for further clarity.
OUTCOME: Reduce confusion when speaking about the Root CNA structure and operation.

GOAL:
CHANGE: Should the requirement that CVE assignments must be public or planned to be made public be removed?
OUTCOME:
  
GOAL:  
CHANGE: Should there be a new record type: "Not Public". This would accommodate the use case of a CVE ID being assigned without there being an intention for it to ever be made public (outside of the CNA's internal operation).
OUTCOME: 
 
GOAL: 
CHANGE: Should the original reservation entity or reservation chain be added to required data?
OUTCOME:

GOAL: 
CHANGE: Should "Description" be excluded from the required fields in Appendix B?
OUTCOME: 

GOAL: Update the documentation concerning the CVE JSON format
CHANGE: Add references and rules updates regarding the CVE JSON format and its use.
OUTCOME: 
_____

30 March 2017
- Dan Adinolfi

GOAL:
CHANGE:Add a rule that states a CNA must provide a page on their web site which lists the products for which they accept vulnerability reports. 
This includes a listing of EOL (or other) software that are explicitly _not_ covered.
OUTCOME:
______

- Kurt Seifried

GOAL: Ensure discoverability of the CNA coverage page (e.g. they list the URL in their CNA entry?)
CHANGE: Provide instance for content in which the CNA coverage page should now be included.
OUTCOME: The CNA coverage page will be more visable for situations in which it is appropriate.

GOAL: Ensure some normalized format for the data, e.g. JSON? a simple list?
CHANGE: Create a normalized data format.
OUTCOME: Data flows will now be consistent.

GOAL:
CHANGE: Should we also allow projects/etc. to simply embed the data into their CNA listing, especially if it is "simple" (e.g. an Open Source project with a single software project, or a project with multiple projects that are well defined (e.g. within their GitHub organization) where they cover "everything" for example
OUTCOME: 


GOAL: 
CHANGE: Provide examples of the kinds of issues that might cause escalations. Also, create a rule that requires some kind of paper trail for attempts to work with the CNA.
OUTCOME: Have both examples for situations that may require an escalation, and ensure that attempt at escalation can be backed up with evidence that resolution at the current level is not an option
______

GOAL: The current CNA rules do not stipulate a specific time by which a CNA should update their upstream CNA after a CVE ID has been made public. 
CHANGE: MITRE asked the Board for guidance on the most time a CNA can wait. The Board suggested that CNAs should update their upstream CNAs within 24 hours of the publication of a CVE ID. 
OUTCOME: This recommendation will be added to the list of updates to be considered for the next CNA Rules update.
______

11 April 2017
Kurt Seifried

GOAL:
CHANGE: Go through the CNA docs and highlight some of the potentially undefined/problematic terms/phrases, e.g. "public disclosure" and so on. Provide better definitions for those selected. 
OUTCOME: Reduce ambiguity in the CNA docs.
______


3 May 2017

GOAL: 
CHANGE: Clarify disclosure policies and what kinds of vulnerabilities (public, non-public, etc.) are given CVE IDs by the CNA and for what specific scope. Include a policy template. (Review the Embargo and Disclosure template)
OUTCOME:

_____

11 May 2017

Add explicit how-to steps for submitting CVE entries to the Primary CNA.
_____

Revision Process (also to be added to the CNA Rules as an Appendix):

Revisions will be made in Git.

Revision list document and DRAFT new version.

Create a template for submissions to the CNA Rules revision process.
  - Goal
  - Proposed solution
  - Expected Outcome
  - Proposed language (optional)

First 30 days
  - open comment period
  - Board and CNAs
  - Use above format for revisions
  - 2 or 3 conference calls
  
 Next 60 days
  - 1 week sprints with a subset of the proposed revisions each sprint. Each subset is only to be discussed during that sprint.
  - 8 total sprints.
  - At the end of a sprint, if something wasn't resolved or discussed, it will not be included in this revision.
  - At the end of all sprints, the document will be finalized and sent to the Board for approval.
  
Proposed: New Rules go into effect on Jan 1, 2018

______


1. GOAL: Better define the correct use of CVE.
CHANGE: Should the requirement that CVE assignments must be public or planned to be made public be removed?
  - Should there be a new record type: "Not Public". This would accommodate the use case of a CVE ID being assigned without there being an intention for it to ever be made public (outside of the CNA's internal operation).
OUTCOME: CVE will be used as widely as necessary for as many use cases as practical.

2. GOAL: Track who reserved what CVE IDs.
CHANGE: Should the original reservation entity or reservation chain be added to required data?
OUTCOME: Regardless of the assigner, the entire Sub CNA/Root CNA chain of CVE ID reservations will be included in each CVE entry.

3. GOAL: Streamline the CVE Entry creation process.
CHANGE: Should "Description" be excluded from the required fields in Appendix B?
OUTCOME: CNAs and requesters will be able to assign CVE IDs with the least necessary effort.

4. GOAL: Make CNA scope more easily determined by third parties.
CHANGE: Add a rule that states a CNA must provide a page on their web site which lists the products for which they accept vulnerability reports. This includes a listing of EOL (or other) software that are explicitly _not_ covered.
OUTCOME: CNA scopes will be easy to find by anyone.

5. GOAL: Clarify existing language.
	- Page 5 of the current CNA rules state:
"In cases where requests or issues cannot be resolved by a given CNA, the issues are escalated to the next higher level CNA."
Provide examples of the kinds of issues that might cause escalations. Also, create rule that requires some kind of paper trail for attempts to work with the CNA.
	-Clarification around disclosure policies and what kinds of vulnerabilities (public, non-public, etc.) are given CVE IDs by the CNA and for what specific scope. Include a policy template. (Review the Embargo and Disclosure template)
	- Clarify the difference between "when a vulnerability is made public" versus "when a vulnerability is added to the CVE list" and how they affect each other.
	- Better describe the nested Root CNA structure (with a new diagram?).
	- Section 1.3: Clarify how to approach CNAs that are violating CNA Rules. Also, place limitations on sanctions (Perhaps "Any sanctions implemented by a Root CNA may be appealed up to the Primary CNA for adjudication.")
	- In Appendix B, clarify how to use the [VERSION] field. Use any of: Fixed-Version, Known-Affected-Version, Last-Affected-Version, First-Fixed-Version, etc. Adopt JSON standard here?
	- In Appendix B, remove "to the greatest level of detail available". As it is, this sounds like asking for full disclosure. Some may never provide details that can only be useful in constructing an exploit. The phrase "greatest level of detail" sounds unnecessary.
	- In Appendix B, give more examples that show how to handle multiple products or versions.
	- For Appendix C, INC2: Vulnerabilities intended to be private can become public.
I guess section 2.1.1 stated it better: "CVE IDs should only be assigned to vulnerabilities that are or will be made public."
	- For Appendix C, INC3: Suggestion this can be rephrased as:
'Is it only in an online service (software-as-a-service), on a specific web site, or only offered through hosting solutions, where complete remediation of the vulnerability is under the full control of the vendor, and does not require any action from anyone else'.
	- For Appendix C, CNT3: 'Vulnerabilities in protocols' and 'vulnerabilities in protocol implementation' are two different beasts. Suggestion: make it 'vulnerabilities in protocol specifications "and" implementations'.
	- For Appendix C, CNT3: What about shared hardware or shared hardware architecture?
What about standard formats like file formats or data encoding formats?
	- 
OUTCOME: Less vague or confusing language.

6. GOAL:
CHANGE: Should we also allow projects/etc. to simply embed the data into their CNA listing, especially if it is "simple" (e.g. an Open Source project with a single software project, or a project with multiple projects that are well defined (e.g. within their GitHub organization) where they cover "everything" for example
OUTCOME:

7. GOAL:
CHANGE: Ensure some normalized format for the data, e.g. JSON? a simple list?
OUTCOME:

8. GOAL:
CHANGE: Ensure discoverability of the CNA coverage page (e.g. they list the URL in their CNA entry?)
OUTCOME:

9. GOAL:
CHANGE: Tie JSON updates schedule to CNA Rules update schedule.
OUTCOME:

10. GOAL: Add new required fields.
CHANGE: 
	- Should we make the publication date a required field? 
	- Should we make Impact a required field?
OUTCOME: Enrich the metadata included in CVE entries.

[Manion 2017-07-11]
publication date: yes (publication of the populated CVE ID, not the public disclosure date of the vulnerability?)
impact: no, but prefer it, and give some guidance, such as, impact can be CVSS-like direct effect of exploiting vulnerability, and doesn't have to get into more risk-like real world impact.

11. GOAL: Simplify assignment process

21 June 2017 (edited 26 June 2017)

GOAL:
CHANGE: Should we make the publication date a required field? 
OUTCOME:

GOAL: Simplify assignment process
CHANGE: Just make CVE ID year the year it was assigned.
OUTCOME: Reduced overhead for getting a CVE ID with the correct year.  Reduced confusion by CVE consumers.

12. GOAL:  Make the CNA processes more standardized and repeatable.
CHANGE: Define when an entry be marked as disputed versus rejected.
OUTCOME:  Consistent results with defensible reasoning

13. GOAL: Transparency
CHANGE: The CVE List cannot be the first point of publication for any information.
OUTCOME:  Document current policy

14. GOAL:  Make the CNA processes more standardized and repeatable.
CHANGE Define how to handle third-party updates to a CNA's entry. References? Description changes?
OUTCOME: Set expectations, consistent results, and transparent processes.

15. GOAL:  Increase coverage
CHANGE:  Expand who can be a CNA (from CERTs, vendors, CCs).
OUTCOME:  Clarify requirements for becoming a CNA.  


16. GOAL:  Make the CNA processes more standardized and repeatable.
CHANGE:  Describe the annual review cycle for rejecting CVE IDs.

GOAL:  Make the CNA processes more standardized and repeatable.
CHANGE:  Describe the annual review cycle for rejecting CVE IDs, (including reserved IDs that have not been made public.

OUTCOME:  

17. GOAL:  
CHANGE:  Appendix B overhaul including what needs to be in the Description (product/version).
OUTCOME:

18. GOAL:  Make the CNA processes more standardized and repeatable.
CHANGE:  Define if and how CNAs assign CVE IDs to bundled third-party products.
OUTCOME:  Reduce duplicate, increased transparency in processes, and better quality entries.
WORDING:
	A product vendor may assign a CVE ID to a bundled product, if
		the producer of the bundled product is not a CNA
		they coordinate with the producer of the bundled product or 
    (if contact with the producer fails) the Root CNA for the product.

19. GOAL:  Make the CNA Rules easier to use
______

26 June 2017
- Jonathan Evans

GOAL:  Make the CNA Rules easier to use
CHANGE: Split CNT3 into a rule for codebases and another for standards, libraries, etc.
OUTCOME:  Increased clarity in the process.
WORDING:
	CNT3: Shared Codebase
		Affects a single product, assign one CVE ID
		Affects the same code in multiple products, assign a CVE ID to each affected codebase
		Affects multiple products but with different code, assign a CVE ID to each product
		Not sure or undefined, assign a CVE ID to each product
	CNT 4: Libraries, Protocols, Standards, etc.
		Results from conforming to the specification, assign a single CVE ID.
		Results from a choice by the implementer, assign a CVE ID to each affected codebase.
		Not sure, assign a CVE ID to each affected codebase.
 
20. GOAL:  Make the CNA Rules easier to use
CHANGE: Add extra decision for the case when issues aren't independently fixable and when you aren't sure.
OUTCOME:  
WORDING:
	CNT1:
		If a vulnerability can be fixed independently of the others, go to CNT2.
		If the vulnerabilities cannot be fixed independently, group the bugs together and go to CNT2.
		If it is not clear whether the vulnerabilities can be fixed independently, group the bugs together and go to CNT2.

21. GOAL: Document existing policy
CHANGE: INC2 should be changed to clarify that the vulnerabilities that are already public can be assigned a CVE ID.
OUTCOME:  Reduced confusion.

22. GOAL: Increase adobption of CVE
CHANGE: Remove CVE ID assignment requirements for Root CNAs
OUTCOME:  Organizations willing to be a Root CNA but without the resources to handle CVE ID assignment will become join.

23. GOAL:  Clarify the CNA Rules
CHANGE: Rework the wording for INC4
OUTCOME:  The Counting Rules are easier to implement.

24. GOAL:  Incentivize proper behavior
CHANGE:  Change the issue resolution processes (Appendix E) to account for CNAs who violate the rules
OUTCOME:  Fewer rules violations

25. GOAL: Fix typos.
GOAL:  Incentivise proper behavior
CHANGE:  Change the issue resolution processes (Appendix E) to account for CNAs who violate the rules
OUTCOME:  Fewer rules violations


GOAL: Fix typos.
CHANGE:
	- 2.2.9 has a typo at the end.
OUTCOME: Correct grammar and spelling.

26. GOAL: Better define terms.
CHANGE: 
	- Better define "hardware" with regard to CVE.
	- Go through the CNA docs and highlight some of the potentially undefined/problematic terms/phrases, e.g. "public disclosure" and so on is so that we can maybe define them better. 
OUTCOME: Regularized terminology.

27. GOAL: Improve process descriptions.
CHANGE:
	- Add references and rules updates regarding the CVE JSON format and its use.
	- The current CNA rules do not stipulate a specific time by which a CNA should update their upstream CNA after a CVE ID has been made public. MITRE asked the Board for guidance on the most time a CNA can wait. The Board suggested that CNAs should update their upstream CNAs within 24 hours of the publication of a CVE ID. This recommendation will be added to the list of updates to be considered for the next CNA Rules update.
	- Additionally, CVE IDs that have been reserved for long periods of time without any public assignment could be “REJECT”ed or labeled in some other way to indicate they are inactive in the CVE list.
	- Include rules describing how and when to assign CVE IDs using a year different from the current one.
http://cve.mitre.org/about/faqs.html#year_portion_of_cve_id
	- Add explicit how-to steps for submitting CVE entries to the Primary CNA.
	- Include rules explicitly describing when and how unused CVE IDs will be rejected each year.
	- How to assign for bundled third-party products.
	- A time limit for how long reserved CVE IDs can be held without any update to the CNA who issued them.
	- Sub CNAs can send CVE assignment information directly to the Primary CNA and not have to go through their Root CNA.
OUTCOME: CNAs will have clear processes to follow.

28. GOAL: Address reference formats in CNA rules.
GOAL: Better data in CVE database - IMPACT data
CHANGE: Make IMPACT an explicitly required component of the CVE unless it is truly not known. Ideally the information should be specific (e.g. "code execution") but if not a more general (AIC impact) should be provided.
OUTCOME: Less "unknown impact CVEs"

GOAL: Address reference formats in CNA rules.
CHANGE: Add descriptions and process for use of reference formats in CVE descriptions (e.g., MISC:, CONFIRM:, BUGTRAQ:, etc.)
OUTCOME: CNAs will make use of the reference formats to enrich the metadata surrounding entries.

[Manion 2017-07-11]
Agree, but also consider more scalable reference format such as vxref:
https://github.com/FIRSTdotorg/vrdx-sig-vxref-wip/tree/master/vxref

29. GOAL: Include optional fields in CVE entry CSV and flat file submission standard.
CHANGE: Include [INITIALRELEASEDATE], [CURRENTRELEASEDATE], [CVSSSCORE], [ACKNOWLEDGEMENT], [PUBLISHER], [CWE], [CPE]. Should we rely on the JSON format to supply this instead?
OUTCOME: More metadata can be submitted in regularized formats.
NOTES: Consider more scalable 

[Manion 2017-07-11]
All allowed formats should be consistent, moving towards JSON MVP (and optional elements) as the standard.  Focus on MVP.  Note multiple "vulnerability data format" efforts:  CVE, CVE+DWF, CVRF/SCAF, NIST NVD, NIST vulntology.  CVE format should focus on CVE mission of vulnerability identification.  Connect/integrate with other formats (severity, product list, type of vulnerability) but do not build the into CVE MVP (just need the hooks/containers).

30. GOAL: Notify requester when a CVE ID has been assigned.
CHANGE: Create a requirement that the original requester of a CVE ID will be notified when the CVE ID has been assigned.
OUTCOME: Improved communication between CNAs and CVE requesters.

_________________________________

11 July 2017

CVE Used vs. CVE assigned
Helps differentiate between what are actually assigned vs. those that are reserved and (maybe) unused.
The Primary CNA should be publishing these summaries.
The Root CNAs must provide the Primary CNA these data.
"Allocated" vs. "Reserved"?

Primary CNA will send periodic reports to the Root/Sub CNAs indicating what CVE IDs we have observed/had reported to us that have not been published.
One other option is a query on demand vs an email notification

[Manion 2017-07-11]
I question how much effort to put into tracking reserved vs. assigned.  We have plenty of IDs now, if bunches go unassigned, so be it.  What is critical is that IDs that go public (are assigned) are populated, ideally by the assigning/responsible CNA.  So I understand the need for reports about public IDs that aren't populated.  But for reports about what is reserved/unused, I don't see a strong need.  If the reporting is easy/low cost, I see no harm.

For Automation WG: more publication notification tools, push or pull

JSON will become the preferred format for CVE assignment. This would be done through a migration process. Year-long?
JSON revision is tied to CNA Rules revision timeline

Add numbers to suggestions.

notification timeframes... what is a reasonable amount of time to expect details of CVE from CNA. Set as guideline with loose compliance. "notify immediately", but not a hard rule.

are the counting rules too flexible?

Allow flexibility in CNT1 to accommodate large numbers of almost-identical CVE IDs?
For example, using gt instead of >= over and over.

Interpretations of protocols
Multiple vendors using the same misinterpretation of a protocol in different products.
Currently, would assign different CVE IDs for each product because we do not know, but if we do know we should assign a single CVE ID if the mistake is identical.
CNT3 addresses this to some degree. "Results from conforming to the specification, assign a single CVE ID. Results from a choice by the implementer, assign a CVE ID to each affected codebase. Not sure, assign a CVE ID to each affected codebase."
VXREF could help with this, as it has a function to create relationships between vulnerabilities.
SUGGESTION: "Results from a choice by the implementer, assign a single CVE ID."
SUGGESTION: Clarify what we mean by "choice by the implementer"


FAQs for integrating the CNA processes into their operations

Edge cases for counting

Resource that points to all our documentation
Lays out the documentation in a logical way

Include PGP information on our CNA page.
Link to PGP along with email address?

More specific guidance on what information needs to be reported back to the Primary and what formats.
Templates need justification and explanation of what we are using those data for. Data needs meaning and results should be actionable.

References:
Way to categorize them? CONFIRM exists, do we need more tags? "Advisory" "Analysis" "Dispute" etc. 
SUGGESTION: CNAs should use reference tags when possible.
https://github.com/CVEProject/automation-working-group/issues/28

Attribution of vuln and credit?
https://github.com/CVEProject/automation-working-group/blob/master/cve_json_schema/DRAFT-JSON-file-format-v4.md#credit
What should be done with discoverer or other attribution?
Currently use references to give info about discovery/attribution.

SUGGESTION: Distinguish between what information is captured where. CVE ID entry vs. raw CVE feed vs. git repo.

SUGGESTION: CNAs will be attributed to any CVE IDs they assign on the CVE List.



















